
# Agenda
* [Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13WiiNWF7Q0yrM79Ly_D0K2zJRjqr4iQS-uyhi_UxKtU/edit?usp=sharing)
* Reminder about [meeting preferences poll](https://forms.gle/S8ezmnLn7MuVSkwS7)
* Key open questions
  * **Subsets** - What are the right subsets to choose initially? Are there use cases that don't work with subsets anymore? ([GitHub issue #96](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/96))
  * **Associated** - What challenges might developers encounter from a limit of 3 associated domains? ([GitHub issue #93](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/93))
  * **CHIPS** - How does CHIPS interact with (and benefit from) FPS and SAA? ([GitHub issue #94](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/94))
  * **rSAForSite** - Can we solve existing use cases for FPS with embedded rSA? If not, does the rSAForSite proposal help? ([GitHub issue #97](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/97))
  * **Technical checks** - What additional technical checks should we consider to combat abuse? ([GitHub issue #95](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/95))


Chair: 
Scribe volunteer: Sam Weiler, Ben Savage

# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)

1. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
1. Thomas Steiner (Google) 
1. Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
1. Chris Fredrickson (Google)
1. Jeremy Ney (Google)
1. Don Marti (CafeMedia)
1. Rachit Sharma (IAB Tech Lab) 
1. Shuran Huang (Google)
1. Erik Taubeneck (Meta)
1. Ben Savage (Meta)
1. Cornelius Witt (eyeo) 
1. Martin Thomson (Mozilla)
1. Aram Zucker-Scharff (The Washington Post)
1. Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)
1. Steven Valdez (Google)
1. Nick Doty (CDT)
1. Chris Wilson (Google)
1. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
1. Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)
1. Hong Cai (BBC) 
1. Aykut Bulut (Google Chrome)
1. Elias Selman (Criteo)
1. Rai Banerjee (Amazon)
1. Sarah Heimlich (Google)
1. Thomas Prieur (Criteo)
1. Heejin Chung (Samsung)
1. Leon Yin (LinkedIn)
1. Kirubel Aklilu (Chrome)
1. Maria Mandlis (Google)
1. Brian Lefler (Google Chrome)
1. Lionel Basdevant (Criteo)
1. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
1. Dongoh Park (Google)
1. Wendy Seltzer (W3C)
1. Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)
1. Vinod Panicker (Amazon Ads)

# Notes

Kaustubha: hoping to set up regular calls.  Express preference in [Issue #89](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/89).  Preferences leaning toward Mondays 9am PT; bi-weekly.   Agenda doc; we'll pick items from that.  

Kaustubha: FPS was in PCG until a month or so ago.  No multi-implementer interest,  so moved here.  Significant changes since then.  Today want to discuss open Qs.

Johann: if you're not familiar with FPS, look at previous presentations.  This is focused on changes.  1) Abandon SameParty cookie attribute.  Recognize that synchronous access does not lend itself to mechanisms other browsers want to use for cross site cookie access; instead move to Storage Access API.  Storage Access isn't perfect; has usability issues.  We proposed `requestStorageAccessFor` (rSAFor) API.  2nd chance: introduce subsets, to break apart list based on use cases, e.g. ccTLD, or service domains.  Different privacy characteristics than other sets.  Associated Subset is the most interesting.  There needs to be a limit on understanding; can't open the door broadly; the user needs to be able to understand.  So you need to be able to show that association, and possibly limited in number (e.g. to 3).

Kaustubha: we've identified at least 4 open Qs.  With the pivot to using Subsets (v. one owner and a flat list of members), spectrum of use cases that we had trouble reasoning through.  So we're going with use-case-specific lists.  First is country code variants; we can assume users understand these.  Second is service domains, e.g. to isolate content - e.g. user uploaded content on other domains.  Githubusercontent.com.  We expect service domains to be in an embedded context; no direct user interactions.  Third are associated domains.  Concerns raised in PCG re: user understanding.  Look at domain main, relationship isn't clear.  

Johann: could have a login bounce flow.  The way it's worded now, there's nothing stopping associated sites from being in the same set.  It would be great to find other use cases.  

Kaustubha: other case is eTLD (effective TLD).  Approached by someone from gov.uk - they had added themselves to the PSL since they wanted cookie isolation.  They have a consent mgmt service; they want to share that state across site, because they're concerned about erosion of user trust if they keep showing consent dialogs.  It looks like they restructured; they may not have a use case for this yet.  

Nick: please add the gov.uk bit to the issue.  I'm struggling with how these subsets are useful to the user.  We're talking about some things the user would understand, but we're talking about relaxing some constraints, and it's not sure the user would want that.  The whole point of the different domains was different context.  E.g. google.de and google.fr user might expect some separation.  So even when branding is easy to understand, users may not want to combine data.

Kaustubha: I wonder if there's some nuance.  Just because sites are in same FPS, doesn't mean data sharing must happen.  They still have to conform to legal rules and their only privacy policy.  We're doing this for compatibility, e.g login, consent mgmt.  Want browser to know when to prompt user.  More for browser to figure out how to handle request.  Talked in PCG re: Storage Access API.  Issues with the prompt - hard to understand.  Firefox, because of user understanding, auto grants up to a limit.  FPS gives browser info to help facilitate these flow; helps browser reason.  E.g. single sign on.  Playstation login redirects to sony, and is asked if they want to sign in. 

Nick: seems like two opposite things.  Does user expect data to be combined?  Or is it up to the site?

Kaustubha: it's the site's responsibility.  Trying to bridge gap between all of browser technical mechanisms, re: show a prompt to user.  

Johann: the question re: value to user: are we asking that question about every API we're adding?  

Nick: I'm trying to

Johann: there's some need for that cross-site data joining. We are trying to prevent tracking at large scale, while allowing user-understandable data joining.  FPS, like Storage Access, err on "preserve existing use case" side.  We don't have solutions for many things websites are built on.  Other browsers have said they want Storage Access API.  Problem for Chrome because we'd be showing it everywhere - and it would lead to prompt blindness.  Problem is like the cookie prompt.  We want to keep websites working without spamming users with prompts.  What can we do to give us confidence that sites are don't large scale tracking?

Nick: I think we're getting closer to understanding what the purpose of this API is, but it's not super clear.

Don Marti: one way to look at associated domains: would users be more likely to complain if a particular sharing did NOT take place than if it did?  Example: batman-the-movie and batman-the-comic-book - user research might show that people expect a preference (like a California "do not sell") to take effect across multiple domains.  User expectation is the important test.

Johann: good way to see it.

Ben Savage: this gets to Associated Domains.  I posit: when serving ads, the richness of FP data you have available is financially correlated with your interests.  If you have a set of sites that auto-accept storage, it helps them build a better model.  This creates financial model to create ever-larger groups with auto-granted storage access.  What does that do to the web?  Consolidation and conglomerate forming.  Is there any back pressure?  What's the opposing force?  Is there any?  Do we think that would lead to a web that's better for society?  

[scribe change]

Kaustubha: We have wrestled with this. We are optimizing for compat. Understand this incentivizes sets like this. One thing that came up in the Privacy CG was a numeric limit. When we talked to people with these use-cases - they had hundreds / thousands. Safari / Brave recommended 3-10. We couldn't agree on that limit because some people had 100s / 1000s. This is one motivation for subsets. Perhaps a big chunk are service domains. When people talk about concerns with user-understanding we expect it'll be the "associated domains". So we have a numeric limit of 3 for the associated set. It's hard for us to come up with a mechanism that scales to the entire web. Need objectivity. Numeric limit is objective. Happy to listen to other ideas. 

Johann: Associated is not intended to be used for ads data collection. We cannot rule-out that these 3 domains will do that. It's not an ever growing set. 

Ben Savage: What mechanisms exist to prevent misuse of "service domains"?

Kaustubha: We are leaning to objective and technical checks. Want to catch abuse. This is one question we want to bring to the group. Basic set of checks. Sets can only consist of valid sites. Only support https sites. Sets must be mutually exclusive. Check for a "well-known" file. Prove you control this domain. Propose rSAForSite. Adds a bit of technical mitigation against people using service domain (cannot be invoked for service domains).

Considering feasibility of things like absence of ads.txt / robots.txt / no landing-page / redirect. If you look at GoogleUserContent.com it'll just redirect you back to other sites. 

Ben Savage: Please discuss the rSAForSite limitation.

Johann: You'd have to be on associated site before. There is also policy. You could set up your site so that it links to these sites. You'd have to have some kind of experience on these CDN sites. Seems contrived. Also public scrutiny. 

Kaustubha: Question for the group: What doesn't work with the subset approach? Any missing categories? 

Nick Doty: Are you asking for business use-cases?

Johann: Yes.

Kaustubha: We are developing this for user flows like SSO / consent management / etc. Are there any missing subset categories?

Johann: For me, the question is on associated domains. Do we need it? How will you use it. Is it too small? Can we add a subset for it? What constraints can we put on that subset. 

Ben Savage: What is the use case for doubleclick.net on google.com - is that a service domain? Would doubleclick.com be in a FPS with Google.com

Johann: I'm not sure why that would be useful.

Kaustubha: As far as I know, Google.com is the login thing, so if Google needed a shared sense of identity, it would use Google.com. It could, but it might as well be Google.com.

Helen: This will all be on Github, will people be comfortable with putting all these domains on a public location.

Johann: I'd like to understand the threat better.

Ben Savage: I just don't see "ads" as a subset.

Helen: Intentionally, we have the ads APIs. 

Micheal: If you have an ads use case, you should let us know.

Aram: Thinking of a future world where privacy is higher. This introduces privacy concerns. What happens when a domain in a FPS is "sniped". Particularly a service domain. What if you screw up your domain renewal. Can they break-into a FPS? Get enhanced access.

Johann: No security boundaries are relaxed... Well... We are looking at security issues in the Storage Access API. It's a minor caveat to this. Then there are no security implications to this.

Aram: Isn't part of your use-case being able to share the user between multiple sites?

Johann: That's a very broad definition of what we are doing. If one site is embedded on the other, it can get access to its own data. There is no backend data sharing. 

Aram: Domain sniping is a threat today. I want to understand how this would affect it. 

Johann: Popular ad network embedded on many sites. If they were domain sniped, that's not a concern with FPS. It's constrained to a small network of sites owned by the FPS operator. Washington Post has 3 sites in their FPS, then sure, you'd have access to your own first party cookies.

Aram: Axel Springer commented on this

Johann: The number is 3. Unless there is a huge pushback to go up to 5. There are ccTLDs, not sure how much utility that brings to the attacker. And there are service domains with a lot of limitations. 

Aram: But the associated domains get access to all the associated parties.

Kleber: (animated) they don't!

Nick Doty: On associated domains, it seems like in the previous FPS proposal there was a requirement for common ownership / branding. I'm curious how that fits with the criteria from earlier about user expectations. 

Johann: Can we discuss after the meeting - we have more content to get through. 

Helen: We sought feedback from partners. We asked "would this be enough"? Partners would need to invest a lot of time and efforts to conform to the policy. Want to maintain status quo to minimize breakage, while minimizing user-breakage. We don't understand all the use-cases we need to preserve. We are using this as a "hook" to get partners to tell us what their actual use-cases are so that they'll tell us.

Martin: Queued to discuss governance

Johann: We have more content to get through

Martin: We have 4 minutes left

Kaustubha: Sorry. Please attend future WICG meetings.

Chips is a proposal for partitioning cookies. We said CHIPS would use the top-level-site, unless it's a FPS, in which case it'll use the "owner" site. We thought this was an "equalizing force" for SMBs as they rely on 3rd party service providers, don't build everything in-house. If you have 3-4 domains, and rely on a 3rd party provider, a homegrown service on another domain could share. But, as Johann mentioned we are abandoning the SameParty cookie attribute. Adopting "Storage Access API". Need to explicitly ask for access to cookies. So we couldn't keep the original proposal of CHIPS. Instead we will likely need to more some other approach. Wanted to ask more directly, do you have use-cases where you have a 3rd party service provider that would be part of the 1st party set. 


